Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Welcome to this bonus / optional lecture
where I'm going to talk about how you can take your sketches,
add interaction to them, get them on your phone,
and take them to the next level using a system called POP.
As always, if you're not interested, you're too busy for this stuff,
this is optional. Skip the lecture, I will see you later.
All right, so in the last two lectures we got into
sketching, showed you how to do it,
how to think through it, and then we practiced by
creating a wireframe set called InstaFood.
Now, the idea behind sketches are that they're rapid,
they're very easy to do, pen and paper, that's it,
and you can do them really, really quickly.
So if you have an idea, you want to communicate it,
you can sketch it out and then show it to someone,
that instantly brings your communication
and your conversation to the next level.
It's also incredibly useful for things like validation
or user testing because, on the fly, if you want
to ask about something or get someone's feedback on it,
you can just whip it up and show it to them.
But one of the limits of being able to do that quickly is that you
have to hold the piece of paper and explain to them
"Oh this button goes over here, and trust me, it's going
to have, like, a thing that does this, and ...it makes sense."
It's especially troublesome when you're trying to convince
someone of mobile apps, because you're holding
a piece of paper and, you know, if you draw an iPhone
like the way I draw an iPhone, people will think you're crazy.
All right, so enter POP, one of my favorite apps
for sketching and collaborating.
All right, so you can check it out online if you want to,
it's popapp.in, I don't know what the .in suffix is.
but they'll talk you through it, show you how it works.
It's free to use, and you only pay if you start using it for tons
and tons of projects, at which point you should probably
pay anyway.
It works for iOS, Android, and Windows phones,
so it pretty much covers
everybody - sorry if you have a BlackBerry, but let's be honest,
if you have a BlackBerry, you have bigger problems.
Now, the idea behind POP is that we're gonna use our
phones to take a photo of our sketches, then it's
going to import it into the POP system,
and we can add basic user flow and interactions.
One thing that does make this easier for you guys
though is to go to popapp.in/sketchpad/
and you can download these sketch pads
they have that are really clean, really to spec, and for
all the major phones - it'll make this process
a lot easier, at least it will look a lot better.
All right. You ready?
Grab a piece of paper, draw out your
wireframes and your sketches,
grab your phone, and let's use some POP.
So you'll open POP, and then it's pretty simple.
You just want to create a project,
and I'll just talk you through this as we go.
Name it. Remember? Ours was InstaFood.
Okay.
Now, what it wants me to do is say what device that
my designs are for, if I want to do landscape or
portrait, I want to do portrait with an iPhone 5,
I actually drew an iPhone 5, at least that's what was
in my head when I was using it.
Yes, this is an iPhone 5 and it is yellow. Create your project
and then just hit the plus button here,
because hitting the plus button will ask us to add screens.
So, the way we do this is we take photos of them. If you've taken photos before, you can throw them into Dropbox,
in your creative cloud, or it's already stored on
your phone, or you can just take them right now.
All right, so then all I have to do is take the photo
of the app that we just drew before. I actually drew
out a couple more screens so that you guys
can see the interaction a little bit better.
And then what you want to do is just place it on the image,
and light up the boxes, and take the photo. Alright,
and then all you have to do is just keep taking photos, you don't have to hit next, and save, and move on, or anything like that.
And so we can just keep moving on.
Then, the third screen that we drew right there.
All right, cool.
Now I have a couple other screens that I'm going to add.
I'm going to call in some extra light, because
we're in the learning den, also known as a cave.
Let's add some more screens. I made a screen for
what happens when you hit e-mail log in.
Obviously, it didn't just automatically send you to the store front.
Facebook log in would do that though.
So we need to take a photo of that, and then
I made another screen for checking out.
So after you hit "Buy", it should add it to a screen
so you can see your subtotal and whatever, whatever.
I made a very basic screen for that.
There.
Okay.
When you're done, hit next.
You can view what you've done.
Great, looks great, looks great.
You have the option to crop if you shot it off
a little bit wrong, like, see how it's,
it's misaligned, so I can put it right back on where it should be.
And I could also just, you know, I could cut it
so it's like this, if I want it to be shorter, or taller, or whatever.
Done, okay.
I can add brightness too as well,
if you guys are also in a cave and you might
want to add some brightness.
Okay, now I see my five screens, now I just need to add in
relationships between the screens. We established
this before, right? You have a log in screen and you
click Facebook login, it takes you to the storefront,
you click on one of the items you want to buy, takes you
to the detail page, and then if you click "Buy",
it's going to take you to the shopping cart.
So I'm going to reflect that in the app. I want to go to
the first one and just click it, and all you want to do
is click on the button or the area that you want to be tappable.
So I just click on the Facebook login, and then I'll draw this little box so it has a wider area that I can touch with my finger.
Great.
Now I link it to, link it to the storefront.
I'll add one more.
This e-mail login will go to the e-mail login
screen I made. There we go.
I realize now that I didn't put a login button for
the login button, so we'll make that a dead end,
but we'll move on to the next screen. So this one,
I would label this the main screen up here just by
tapping the title, I could call it the main screen.
And then I can add in the buttons that we know should work.
So I'll just do the apple for our sake,
link to the detail page.
Great.
Moving over to the detail page.
See how fast this is? It's really, really simple.
Double tap the "Buy" button, make it a little bit larger.
That's going to link to the cart page.
Great.
Okay.
Now I have a project that's set up, it's ready to go.
Now, what I can do is when I'm talking to someone,
say, "Hey, I have this idea for InstaFood, or at least
this is the way I envision a grocery delivery app,"
maybe I work at a startup that is making
something like that - like InstaCart.
And then what I would do is I would
show this to them, but not like this,
I'd show it to them by hitting "Play". And now,
"Play" basically makes a fake version of our app.
Now the sketches look like something on your phone.
So if I wanted to log in, I would hit "Log in," oh and it takes me
to the storefront, and I would be talking them through
it, right? I'd explain what the top button does, and I'd
explain what these images are, not everyone's going
to be doing this with a chisel tip sharpie,
so there's going to be a lot more detail to this.
I do it with those sharpies because I like to, they're fun.
I click on the apple, explain to them how that works.
Oh, I click "Buy" and buy, and I go to the cart page.
Great.
That is the gist of POP. What you can also do is you can add in comments, so what can do is you can share it with people.
And then, if you want to add in commenting,
you just double tap in one area, leave a comment.
"This is great."
And then someone can read that, and then when I
want to share it I just go back up here, hit "Share", and
I can send out a link, so I will text it to myself
and we can see it on our browser.
There you go, it works the same.
I can read an introduction that describes what it is or I can just
play right through it, it works the same exact way.
Check it out. Cool.
Then I give descriptions, yada yada yada.
Anyway, so that's one way you can take your
sketches to the next level.
Awesome, awesome tool for rapidly, on the go,
taking two dimensional sketches and then putting them
on your phone, and putting them in a way that you
can explain them, share them, collaborate on them,
and instantly connect in a better, more meaningful way
with whoever you are trying to explain this to.
All right. Hope you enjoyed that one,
we have plenty of other tools in this course.
At the end of this course, you'll be a master
of so many different things.
I'm kind of envious.
Even though I guess I'm teaching the course,
so it doesn't really make sense.
Whatever. Don't think about it.
See you in the next lecture.